{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue0;\red0\green128\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.15063}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 TYPOGRAPHY\par
\par
BACKGROUND:\par
\par
Typography is the art of arranging text on a page to make it legible and appealing. Decisions about the arrangement of text are just as vital to site design as color, layout, and image selection. Text has the power to greatly transform a site's design by improving balance and visual flow, communicating meaning and textual importance, and making the visual experience engaging and enjoyable for all users.\par
\par
We have a few goals for this article. First, we'll convey best practices for selecting the typeface for site design. Second, we'll advise on how to best utilize fonts to convey content and tone. Finally, as with all major design decisions, we review the importance of seeking regular feedback to achieve the best user experience.\par
\par
Before we dive in, let's clarify some terminology. While the term 'font' is colloquially used to describe all sizes and styles of a particular typeface, it actually refers to a typeface at a specific size. To describe a grouping of all sizes and styles of a specific typeface, we use the word typeface (or font family as seen in CSS).\par
\par
SELECTING TYPEFACES FOR SITE DESIGN\par
\par
Which typefaces are appropriate for your site depends on many factors. The biggest factor in any design choice is whether a font meets users' needs for legibility and clarity.\par
\par
You need to make sure the text on your site is easy to read. The more text your site has, the more important this becomes. If you have a blog, you want to make sure the user is drawn to the title of a post first, then inwards to the content. On an advertising page, the users' eyes should be drawn to the value statements and calls to action. Every site has its own unique needs. As long as you keep the user in mind with every decision you make, you\rquote ll be on the right path.\par
\par
SERIF VERSUS SANS-SERIF TYPEFACES\par
\par
When selecting a typeface a large question you should broach first is whether you should be using a serif font or a sans-serif font. Making the decision to include or not include serifs early on can help guide your search for the right typeface.\par
\par
A serif is a piece of ornamentation or flourish added to the ends of characters of a typeface. Serif fonts have a fancier feel than their sans-serif counterparts. Times New Roman is an example of a serif font family.\par
\par
Serif typefaces have a strong aesthetic and their presence will greatly impact how users experience projects. The presence of serifs also make text easier to read, providing hints to the eye about what letters the user is reading and guiding the eye along each line. As a result, serifs are very often employed by reading-focussed sites, such as news sites and blogs. Sans-serif fonts have become the most prevalent for display of text on computer screens. This is because on lower-resolution digital displays, fine details like serifs may disappear or appear too large. Sans-serifs, in their streamlined design, elegantly avoid this problem.\par
\par
When choosing a typeface, you want your site to be unique, so don\rquote t feel limited by using just web-safe fonts such as Times New Roman or Helvetica. Use online font-hosting services such as Google Fonts or Adobe Typekit to discover and try out unique, attention-grabbing typefaces. You can also discover and download typefaces from sites like dafont.\par
\par
PAIRING TYPEFACES\par
\par
Always consider pairing complementary typefaces since it\rquote s rare that one typeface will be sufficient for your entire website. Using multiple typefaces supports visual hierarchy through contrast, since different fonts have different roles. Paired typefaces should be similar enough to seem like they belong on the same site, but distinct enough that they still help bring your site to life.\par
\par
Font pairings are harmonious when they share at least a couple of characteristics including \highlight1 similar proportions, the height of lowercase letters, and the width\highlight0 . Meanwhile, \highlight1 contrast and variety\highlight0  of typefaces \highlight1 draws users \highlight0 through the content of your site \highlight1 without getting fatigued\highlight0 , and can help get them into a visual rhythm that makes your site easier to use and more enjoyable.\par
\par
It\rquote s important to think about your user when picking your primary font and then select your secondary font after. So if you are designing a text-heavy site, perhaps pick a legible, serif font and then find a secondary, contrasting font that pairs well with it. Some sites help pair typefaces for you. For example, if you select a typeface on Google Fonts, at the bottom of the page you will be given suggested typeface pairings. This is an incredibly useful tool when starting out and experimenting.\par
\par
You can begin pairing typefaces by pairing fonts of the same family. This will help you get a feel for contrasting aesthetics and also similarity in height and letter proportions \f1\emdash  such as being tall, thin, round, or spaced out. Once such example is pairing Source Serif Pro and Source Sans Pro.\par
\par
The following resources provide in-depth advice on pairing fonts:\par
\par
Typewolf\par
Google Font Combinations\par
Hand-picked Tales from \f0\'c6sop's Fables with Hand-picked Type from Google Fonts\par
Additionally, you can also choose typefaces by visiting other sites with typefaces you find striking and using browsers tools to inspect pairings.\par
\par
UTILIZING FONTS TO CONVEY CONTENT AND TONE\par
\par
Once you\rquote ve selected your fonts, your next major task is to use the fonts well. The number one rule here, once again, is user experience.\par
\par
ESTABLISHING A VISUAL HIERARCHY\par
\par
Establishing a visual hierarchy in your site is essential. Typography should support at least three levels of hierarchy. The \highlight2 primary level \highlight0 is for the \highlight2 most important content/information\highlight0 ; this should be the \highlight1 most immediately visible typographic \highlight0 element in your design. The \highlight1 secondary level \highlight0 is to help \highlight2 organize your design into sections\highlight0 ; they \highlight1 should direct the user's eyes to different parts of the design\highlight0  and help them navigate the content more easily without standing out. Especially for text-heavy sites, the \highlight1 tertiary level \highlight0 is the \highlight2 meat of the design\highlight0 ; \highlight1 it should be easy to read\highlight0 , even though the text will be most likely smaller than the first two levels. Directing the user\rquote s eyes inwards to the core content so that they are always intrigued to find out more is a huge part of creating an engaging site.\par
\par
SCALING\par
\par
Scaling fonts is as important to site design, which is why it is preferable to use ems and rems whenever possible. Choosing units that are flexible helps us make changes more swiftly during the design process; ensures our fonts adapt well to different device sizes; and can ensure readability on different browsers.\par
\par
LEADING AND TRACKING\par
\par
Leading and tracking are tools to help make sure your text is readable. Leading is the spacing between lines of text. Using the CSS property line-height, you can make sure your lines are not crammed together or too far apart. Give the user space to breathe while reading each line.\par
\par
Tracking is the space between letters throughout a word. While many fonts should have this spacing well designed for great user experience, you may want to adjust slightly to help with the rest of the feel of your site by using the letter-spacing CSS property. Most well-made fonts will not need this adjustment though, so use sparingly if at all.\par
\par
GETTING FEEDBACK\par
\par
Get feedback early and often. At the end of the day, every site has its own unique needs. As long as you keep the user in mind with every decision you make, you\rquote ll be on the right path.\par
\par
A good way to test your choices is to \highlight1 sit down with around five friends or strangers \highlight0 and show them your site. This will help you get quick, \highlight1 productive feedback that you can begin using in your design decisions\highlight0  right away. Remember that design is a process of designing, testing, and incorporating feedback from users. Ultimately, \highlight1 user happiness and engagement is a sign of robust design choices\highlight0 . Feedback is essential, and will help you become a better designer.\par
}
 